docs/source/user_guide/providing_input_data.rst, before:

The Sensitivity Calculator is pre-configured with default values for all
input parameters.
See :doc:`Inputs to the Calculation <../calculator_info/calculation_inputs>` for
more information on the input parameters and their default values.

You may also initialize the calculator with your own input
values. This is described below.

Initializing the Calculator with a dictionary
*********************************************

The :class:`Calculator <atlast_sc.calculator.Calculator>` object accepts a dictionary as input.
First, create a dictionary with the input data you wish to use:

.. code-block:: python

    input_data = {
        't_int': {'value': 120, 'unit': 's'},
        'sensitivity': {'value': 0, 'unit': 'mJy'},
        'bandwidth': {'value': 7.5, 'unit': 'GHz'},
        'obs_freq': {'value': 200, 'unit': 'GHz'},
        'n_pol': {'value': 2},
        'weather': {'value': 25},
        'elevation': {'value': 25, 'unit': 'deg'}
    }

.. note:: All values must be numeric (integer or float). Units must be valid string
    representations of
    `astropy units <https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/units/index.html>`__.

.. warning:: Check your input data carefully! If the Calculator receives an
    unexpected parameter, it will ignore it. It will not produce an error or a
    warning.

Next, create a new Calculator object, passing the ``input_data`` dictionary.

.. code-block:: python

    calculator = Calculator(input_data)

.. note:: If any of the above parameters are missing from input data dictionary,
    the calculator will use the appropriate default values and units.


Reading data from an input file
*******************************

The :class:`FileHelper <atlast_sc.utils.FileHelper>` class can be used to
read data from a file and generate an input data dictionary.
(See :doc:`Input Files and Formats <input_files_formats>`
for more information on supported file formats and the required structure.)

First, import the file helper class from the :mod:`utils <atlast_sc.utils>` module:

.. code-block:: python

    from atlast_sc.utils import FileHelper


Next, call :meth:`read_from_file <atlast_sc.utils.FileHelper.read_from_file>`,
passing the directory (provide an absolute path, or a path relative to
directory in which your Python script is running) and the name of the data file:

.. code-block:: python

    input_data = FileHelper.read_from_file('<directory>', '<file name>')


This returns a dictionary that can be used to initialize the Calculator
object:

.. code-block:: python

    calculator = Calculator(input_data)

Commit message:

Throw an error if any input parameter names are invalid

docs/source/user_guide/providing_input_data.rst, after:

The Sensitivity Calculator is pre-configured with default values for all
input parameters.
See :doc:`Inputs to the Calculation <../calculator_info/calculation_inputs>` for
more information on the input parameters and their default values.

You may also initialize the calculator with your own input
values. This is described below.

Initializing the Calculator with a dictionary
*********************************************

The :class:`Calculator <atlast_sc.calculator.Calculator>` object accepts a dictionary as input.
First, create a dictionary with the input data you wish to use:

.. code-block:: python

    input_data = {
        't_int': {'value': 120, 'unit': 's'},
        'sensitivity': {'value': 0, 'unit': 'mJy'},
        'bandwidth': {'value': 7.5, 'unit': 'GHz'},
        'obs_freq': {'value': 200, 'unit': 'GHz'},
        'n_pol': {'value': 2},
        'weather': {'value': 25},
        'elevation': {'value': 25, 'unit': 'deg'}
    }

Next, create a new Calculator object, passing the ``input_data`` dictionary.

.. code-block:: python

    calculator = Calculator(input_data)

.. note:: All values must be numeric (integer or float). Units must be valid string
    representations of
    `astropy units <https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/units/index.html>`__.

.. note:: The Calculator with throw an error if any of the input parameter names are
    incorrect.

.. note:: If any of the above parameters are missing from input data dictionary,
    the calculator will use the appropriate default values and units.


Reading data from an input file
*******************************

The :class:`FileHelper <atlast_sc.utils.FileHelper>` class can be used to
read data from a file and generate an input data dictionary.
(See :doc:`Input Files and Formats <input_files_formats>`
for more information on supported file formats and the required structure.)

First, import the file helper class from the :mod:`utils <atlast_sc.utils>` module:

.. code-block:: python

    from atlast_sc.utils import FileHelper


Next, call :meth:`read_from_file <atlast_sc.utils.FileHelper.read_from_file>`,
passing the directory (provide an absolute path, or a path relative to
directory in which your Python script is running) and the name of the data file:

.. code-block:: python

    input_data = FileHelper.read_from_file('<directory>', '<file name>')


This returns a dictionary that can be used to initialize the Calculator
object:

.. code-block:: python

    calculator = Calculator(input_data)
